# Chunk: 320e68734c9f_4

- source: `.venv-lab/Lib/site-packages/charset_normalizer-3.4.4.dist-info/METADATA`
- lines: 177-261
- chunk: 5/15

```
n
{
    "path": "/home/default/projects/charset_normalizer/data/sample.1.fr.srt",
    "encoding": "cp1252",
    "encoding_aliases": [
        "1252",
        "windows_1252"
    ],
    "alternative_encodings": [
        "cp1254",
        "cp1256",
        "cp1258",
        "iso8859_14",
        "iso8859_15",
        "iso8859_16",
        "iso8859_3",
        "iso8859_9",
        "latin_1",
        "mbcs"
    ],
    "language": "French",
    "alphabets": [
        "Basic Latin",
        "Latin-1 Supplement"
    ],
    "has_sig_or_bom": false,
    "chaos": 0.149,
    "coherence": 97.152,
    "unicode_path": null,
    "is_preferred": true
}
```

### Python
*Just print out normalized text*
```python
from charset_normalizer import from_path

results = from_path('./my_subtitle.srt')

print(str(results.best()))
```

*Upgrade your code without effort*
```python
from charset_normalizer import detect
```

The above code will behave the same as **chardet**. We ensure that we offer the best (reasonable) BC result possible.

See the docs for advanced usage : [readthedocs.io](https://charset-normalizer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

## 😇 Why

When I started using Chardet, I noticed that it was not suited to my expectations, and I wanted to propose a
reliable alternative using a completely different method. Also! I never back down on a good challenge!

I **don't care** about the **originating charset** encoding, because **two different tables** can
produce **two identical rendered string.**
What I want is to get readable text, the best I can.

In a way, **I'm brute forcing text decoding.** How cool is that ? 😎

Don't confuse package **ftfy** with charset-normalizer or chardet. ftfy goal is to repair Unicode string whereas charset-normalizer to convert raw file in unknown encoding to unicode.

## 🍰 How

  - Discard all charset encoding table that could not fit the binary content.
  - Measure noise, or the mess once opened (by chunks) with a corresponding charset encoding.
  - Extract matches with the lowest mess detected.
  - Additionally, we measure coherence / probe for a language.

**Wait a minute**, what is noise/mess and coherence according to **YOU ?**

*Noise :* I opened hundred of text files, **written by humans**, with the wrong encoding table. **I observed**, then
**I established** some ground rules about **what is obvious** when **it seems like** a mess (aka. defining noise in rendered text).
 I know that my interpretation of what is noise is probably incomplete, feel free to contribute in order to
 improve or rewrite it.

*Coherence :* For each language there is on earth, we have computed ranked letter appearance occurrences (the best we can). So I thought
that intel is worth something here. So I use those records against decoded text to check if I can detect intelligent design.

## ⚡ Known limitations

```
