# Chunk: fba97d74471a_1

- source: `.venv-lab/Lib/site-packages/jupyter_server/i18n/README.md`
- lines: 69-138
- chunk: 2/3

```
ompile -D nbui -f -l ${LANG} -i ${LANG}/LC_MESSAGES/nbui.po -o ${LANG}/LC_MESSAGES/nbui.mo
```

_nbjs.po_ needs to be converted to JSON for use within the JavaScript code, with _po2json_, as follows:

```
po2json -p -F -f jed1.x -d nbjs ${LANG}/LC_MESSAGES/nbjs.po ${LANG}/LC_MESSAGES/nbjs.json
```

When new languages get added, their language codes should be added to _notebook/i18n/nbjs.json_
under the `supported_languages` element.

### Tips for Jupyter developers

The biggest "mistake" I found while doing i18n enablement was the habit of constructing UI messages
from English "piece parts". For example, code like:

```javascript
var msg = "Enter a new " + type + "name:";
```

where `type` is either "file", "directory", or "notebook"....

is problematic when doing translations, because the surrounding text may need to vary
depending on the inserted word. In this case, you need to switch it and use complete phrases,
as follows:

```javascript
var rename_msg = function (type) {
  switch (type) {
    case "file":
      return _("Enter a new file name:");
    case "directory":
      return _("Enter a new directory name:");
    case "notebook":
      return _("Enter a new notebook name:");
    default:
      return _("Enter a new name:");
  }
};
```

Also you need to remember that adding an "s" or "es" to an English word to
create the plural form doesn't translate well. Some languages have as many as 5 or 6 different
plural forms for differing numbers, so using an API such as ngettext() is necessary in order
to handle these cases properly.

### Known issues and future evolutions

1. Right now there are two different places where the desired language is set. At startup time, the Jupyter console's messages pay attention to the setting of the `${LANG}` environment variable
   as set in the shell at startup time. Unfortunately, this is also the time where the Jinja2
   environment is set up, which means that the template stuff will always come from this setting.
   We really want to be paying attention to the browser's settings for the stuff that happens in the
   browser, so we need to be able to retrieve this information after the browser is started and somehow
   communicate this back to Jinja2. So far, I haven't yet figured out how to do this, which means that if the ${LANG} at startup doesn't match the browser's settings, you could potentially get a mix
   of languages in the UI ( never a good thing ).

1. We will need to decide if console messages should be translatable, and enable them if desired.

1. The keyboard shortcut editor was implemented after the i18n work was completed, so that portion
   does not have translation support at this time.

1. Babel's documentation has instructions on how to integrate messages extraction
   into your _setup.py_ so that eventually we can just do:

   ```
   ./setup.py extract_messages
   ```
```
